# Ansible Interview Questions

- Describe each of the following components in Ansible, including the relationship between them:

    Task
    Module
    Play
    Playbook
    Role
Ans)

- How Ansible is different from other Automation tools?
Ans)

- What kind of automation you wouldn't do with Ansible and why?
Ans)

- What is an inventory file and how do you define one?
Ans)

- What is a dynamic inventory file? When you would use one?
Ans)

- How do you list all modules and how can you see details on a specific module?
Ans)

- Write a task to create the directory ‘/tmp/new_directory’
Ans)

- You want to run Ansible playbook only on specific minor version of your OS, how would you achieve that?
Ans)

- What the "become" directive used for in Ansible?
Ans)

- What are facts? How to see all the facts of a certain host?
Ans)

- What would be the result of the following play?
Ans)

- What would be the result of running the following task? How to fix it?
```
- hosts: localhost
  tasks:
      - name: Install zlib
        package:
          name: zlib
          state: present
```
Ans)


- Which Ansible best practices are you familiar with?. Name at least three
Ans)

- Explain the directory layout of an Ansible role
Ans)

- What 'blocks' are used for in Ansible?
Ans)

- How do you handle errors in Ansible?
Ans)

- You would like to run a certain command if a task fails. How would you achieve that?
Ans)

- Write a playbook to install ‘zlib’ and ‘vim’ on all hosts if the file ‘/tmp/mario’ exists on the system.
Ans)

- Write a single task that verifies all the files in files_list variable exist on the host
Ans)

- Write a playbook to deploy the file ‘/tmp/system_info’ on all hosts except for controllers group, with the following content

- The variable 'whoami' defined in the following places:
```
    role defaults -> whoami: mario
    extra vars (variables you pass to Ansible CLI with -e) -> whoami: toad
    host facts -> whoami: luigi
    inventory variables (doesn’t matter which type) -> whoami: browser
```
According to variable precedence, which one will be used?

- For each of the following statements determine if it's true or false:
```
    A module is a collection of tasks
    It’s better to use shell or command instead of a specific module
    Host facts override play variables
    A role might include the following: vars, meta, and handlers
    Dynamic inventory is generated by extracting information from external sources
    It’s a best practice to use indention of 2 spaces instead of 4
    ‘notify’ used to trigger handlers
    This “hosts: all:!controllers” means ‘run only on controllers group hosts
```

- Explain the Diffrence between Forks and Serial & Throttle.
Ans)

- What is ansible-pull? How is it different from how ansible-playbook works?
Ans)

- What is Ansible Vault?
Ans)

- Demonstrate each of the following with Ansible:
```
    Conditionals
    Loops
```
Ans)


- What are filters? Do you have experience with writing filters?
Ans)

- Write a filter to capitalize a string
Ans)

- You would like to run a task only if previous task changed anything. How would you achieve that?
Ans)

- What are callback plugins? What can you achieve by using callback plugins?
Ans)

- What is Ansible Collections?
Ans)

- File '/tmp/exercise' includes the following content
```
Goku = 9001
Vegeta = 5200
Trunks = 6000
Gotenks = 32

With one task, switch the content to:

Goku = 9001
Vegeta = 250
Trunks = 40
Gotenks = 32
```

- How do you test your Ansible based projects?
Ans)

- What is Molecule? How does it works?
Ans)

- You run Ansibe tests and you get "idempotence test failed". What does it mean? Why idempotence is important?
Ans)
